Over the next few lectures, we're going to work with date and time
in python. Basically we have two modules for working with date and time,
one is the time module, which gives us a time stamp,
and the other is date time, which gives us date time objects
with attributes like year, month, and so on. In this lecture we're going to
look at the time module, and we'll look at the day time module next,
so, this time module has a method called time,
that returns the current date time as a time stamp. Let me show you. So,
print, the result this is what
we get, this floating point number represents the number of seconds
from the beginning of time. I'm not talking about the big bang theory, that is
the beginning of time on your operating system. On unix that is generated
first 9070, on windows honestly I'm not sure, so this
floating point number you see here, is the number of seconds after
January first 1970 which is referred to as unix epic
time. As you can see these timestamps are not human readable,
so we use them to perform calculations. Here is an example.
I'm going to define a function to simulate sending an
email to 2000 recipients. So send emails
let's just do a for loop for i in range
10000 I'm going to do a pass here,
now, you're going to call this function but before
calling that, we're going to call time.time
get the current time, store it here, and
one more time after we send the emails. so time.time
values the end time, now we set
duration to end - start.
Let's print the result, duration,
so this is the amount of time it took to execute this function.
Now earlier in the course I also talked about the time it module
we can also use that to calculate the execution time of
some piece of code. Both approaches are perfectly fine. So as you learn
more about python, or any other programming languages, you will realize there are
multiple ways to solve a problem. So these are time stamps in python,
next we'll look at date time objects.